# **Card Catch**


## **Milestone project 2: Interactive Frontend Development - Code Institute**

A memory card game in which players must find all the pairs before the click 
counter reaches Zero

## Demo 

A live Demo version can be found [here](https://ogmyst.github.io/Milestone-project-two/)


## UX

### **Goals:**
* To create simple game accessible to anyone 

* To have a a loss condition in order to encourage more engagement from players

### **User Stories**

Coming Soon

### **Strategy**

The aim was to create a very simple site that focused on the gameplay. A memory
game using playing cards to make it accessible to all ages.

### **Scope**

Originally there were going to be a choice in difficulty from easy, medium and hard. 
The aim was that this would appeal to a wider audience who could commit their time 
and energy to a difficulty that suited them at any moment. Due to time the harder
difficulties were ommited leaving the base game which is accessible to anyone.

### **Structure**

The site has two pages. The landing page contains a button to take the user to the 
game and  atutorial button which loads a video in the browser. The second page is 
the game. This layout is based on the focus on gameplay and displaying only 
information pertaining to that.

### **Skeleton**

Using figma the following wireframes were made:

[Desktop](https://github.com/OGMyst/Milestone-project-two/blob/master/assets/mockups/MS2%20-%20Card%20Catch%20Desktop.pdf)

[Phone](https://github.com/OGMyst/Milestone-project-two/blob/master/assets/mockups/MS2%20-%20Card%20Catch%20Phone.pdf)

It was decided that it would streamline the site if the tutorial had a video rather than a playable tutorial level which
would use pop ups to instruct the user. The site behind the pop ups in the mockups is the basis for the design site.

### **Surface**

The colours for the site were picked with the aim of relaxing the user and creating a low intensity enviroment. The 
off-white background is less sharp than pure white. The sky blue is very subtle and doesn't jump out of the page.

### **Technologies**

    HTML - To create a basic site
    CSS - To create a nice style and to stand-out
    JavaScript - The engine to create user interaction
    FontAwesome - For Card suit icons
    Animate.css - To make interesting transtitions 
    Figma - To create a wireframe

### **JavaScript Libraries**

    Jquery - To toggle classes and display


## Features

The landing page features an embedded video which is displayed when the tutorial button is clicked. The tutorial
is supplemented by a info button on the game which summarises the rules should the player ever need to quickly
check them. A shuffle button on the game page allows users to start a new round should they realise they are 
going to lose their current one. The game features CSS animations which transition from the board to the results 
screen upon winning or losing. 

### Features Left to Impliment

There is room for harder diffiulties, I had an idea for a card which would change positions of all unflipped 
cards. This card could cause some frustration as the player loses a lot of progress and lose through no 
fault of the player. Another feature would be needed to mitigate this frustration and allow the player to 
make tactical decisions. A reveal skill with a limited number of uses could help players see the next card 
at a critical point. The footer currently hold links that only take the user to the respective site's main 
page and not a personal page. As I build up a folio of sites to display and a social media presence, these
links will get linked to those pages instead.



## Testing

ONGOING! 

### **Bugs**

#### **Over Sensitive Click Counter**

It was possible to accidentally lower your click counter number by continuosly clicking other cards whilst a 
non-matching pair were waiting to flip face down again. This was fixed by moving the line of code, which lowered
the click counter number by 1, to the point where the rest of the board was locked making the cards unflippable.
There is still a issue where a player can click on a single card, even whilst flipped, and it will lower the 
click counter.

##### **Layers**

Initially I tried to place the cards using a flex box but this became difficult to impliment very quickly. 
I discovered CSS grid which works much better and has auto-spacing between each box saving me some work. 

##### **Excessive Code**

It was noted that the HTML code used to form the cards in game.html could have been generated by JavaScript
thus saving many lines of repeated code. This was noticed quite late into the build which meant a large section
of javascript would have to be rewritten so it was decided that it could left since it made no difference in
functionality in regards the site.

The following tests have been used to ensure proper site functionality:

* GTmetrix: To test on website loading times
* W3C HTML Validator: This validator checks the markup validity of Web documents in HTML.
* W3C CSS Validator: This validator checks the markup validity of Web documents in CSS.
* JSHint: A static code analysis tool for JavaScript.


## **Deployment**

This site is hosted using GitHub pages, deployed directly from the master branch. The deployed site will update 
automatically upon new commits to the master branch. In order for the site to deploy correctly on GitHub pages, 
the landing page must be named index.html.

To run locally, you can clone this repository directly into the editor of your choice by entering 
git clone https://github.com/ogmyst/Milestone-project-two.git into your terminal. To cut ties with this GitHub 
repository, type git remote rm origin into the terminal.

When the code is downloaded as a .zip it can be unzipped and runned by opening the unzipped folder and then execute 
index.html The code will be executed in the browser that is set as main browser, this can be Chrome or one of the 
other available browsers. When executed the main screen will be shown and the options can be chosen.

## **Credits**

### **Content**

All content on this site were written by me.

### **Media**

All images were taken from [commons.wikimedia.org](commons.wikimedia.org)

## **Acknowledgements**

The flipCard() code was taken from [https://github.com/code-sketch/memory-game](https://github.com/code-sketch/memory-game)

Inspiration for the project came from [https://github.com/ProjectsByJackHe/Sudoku-Solver](https://github.com/ProjectsByJackHe/Sudoku-Solver)